did you know that there's over 200
factors in google's algorithm so how do
you optimize your website for all these
200 factors that's a lot of work
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down the seo
checklist how to fix all your seo errors
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
as i mentioned there's over 200 factors
in google's algorithm how do you
optimize for all of them how do you fix
all your errors that sounds overwhelming
that sounds like a lot of work there
must be an easier way right well there
is
i want you to go to neilpatel.com
seo dash analyzer
and you can see the url here
or if you're on the neil patel website
you can go to tools and just click on
seo analyzer or if you're on the home
page at the very bottom there's a
navigation called tools and again click
on seo analyzer and what this is is
this is a simple free tool and it's a
free report it'll break down all the
errors that you need to fix to be
compliant with google in essence it's
taking those 200 factors putting them
into one report one tool so then that
way when it analyzes your website it
already takes them all into account so
you don't actually have to manually
create a checklist and go through them
this tool already has that checklist
built in so for this case i'm going to
put in my own website neilpatel.com and
then click analyze website
and it takes some time to load i've put
in my website many many times so it's
kind of cached
and if your website's cache and you want
to rerun it just click the recrawl
button right here and it'll rerun your
website also as you fix your seo errors
then you want to click recrawl and it
checks your website all over again for
those 200 factors
so once you put in your website and it
loads and depending on how large your
website is it can finish within a minute
or two or it may end up taking up to 30
minutes if you have extremely large
website with thousands of pages and you
just want to give it time and let it go
through your whole website to see how
compliant you are with those 200
checkpoints or more so checklist items
that google has when it comes to the
ranking factors so as you can see here
it gives an overview of my website my on
page seo score my monthly google traffic
organic keywords my backlinks critical
errors warnings recommendations
and it even breaks on things like site
speed because that's important if you're
in green you're good to go if you're not
in green you'll see
either a yellow or orange or red check
box here and you just hover over the
question mark and i'll tell you what it
is and how to fix it
and again you can see all the seo issues
so i want you to scroll back up and then
first start with the critical errors if
you have any if you don't go to warnings
so i'm going to click on critical errors
because i have some
and it'll say 28 pages with low word
count
and again if you're not sure what this
is and how to fix it just click on that
what is it and how to fix it and i'll
say without enough text on the page
google will have trouble understanding
what the content is about if google
doesn't know what their content is about
it won't be able to rank your content
for the search terms you are targeting
by adding more text you are telling
google's crawlers and your end users
more about what is that you have to
offer anything less than a few hundred
words is considered thin content and
will be nearly impossible to rank so how
do you fix it add more content to the
page so that isn't considered thin
content and has a better chance of
ranking in general the average web page
that ranks on page one of google
contains 2200 words
now that doesn't mean that you need to
put 2200 words and
your website you'll have some pages
within content so let's see which pages
are thin content on my site as i
mentioned you'll have some pages with
thin content this right here is my
contact page
if i load this up you can see right here
this is my contact page in spanish
of course most contact pages don't have
tons of words so it's okay to have a
page within content here and there this
is my contact page in italian this is my
blog page my blog overview page where
you can just continually find more blog
pages right pagination you know when you
go to like a blog and it just has a list
of articles there's not a ton of content
on that page unless you click through on
an article
this is my home page in spanish i can
probably do a better job of adding text
there this is my av text av testing
calculator page which is a tool on a b
testing
it's not going to have
many keywords and it just doesn't make
sense for this page too but as i
mentioned some pages shouldn't have a
lot of
words some pages should my training page
i can probably add way more words to it
contact page in german not so much
a b testing tool page in german again
not so much so as i mentioned some pages
will some pages won't this is my about
page in portuguese i can do a lot better
job of adding text there because a lot
of people in brazil are looking for more
information about my company i can add
testimonials reviews case studies and i
can actually beef up the word count
there which would probably also help
with conversions as well so i want you
to go through each seo issue and once
you fix them click back to seo issues
and you'll see you know all your errors
where you can focus on the critical ones
first
and i have 17 pages with duplicate meta
descriptions
again you know three pages that have
neil patel author entrepreneur marketer
blogger teachers helping small
businesses grow by using innovative
marketing techniques
this is a german page i probably
shouldn't be using an english meta
description on a german page i need to
fix that about page in english is fine
about page in spanish shouldn't be using
that because in spanish people really
can't read that i need to fix that and
make it in spanish or at least translate
it
here's another one do you want to get in
touch with me just fill out the form
below this must be for my contact page
i shouldn't be using that meta
description in italian that's english
terrible user experience so as you can
see here if i kept doing this for all my
pages
i have some work to do here's another
one want to learn more about seo digital
marketing conversion opportunity
e-commerce or even how to generate more
sales check out neil patel's marketing
blog
um and these page three four thirty four
et cetera i should each i probably
should use real canonical or block them
off
from google
uh more so use rel canonical and that'll
solve that problem so as you can see i
have a lot of work to do here with
fixing my meta descriptions and making
sure there's no duplicate
same with title
right
let's say
blog neil patel's digital marketing blog
you should be using i should be using
and you should if you have this issue
rel canonical with all your blog pages
here's another one you'll helping you
succeed with online marketing
this is the italian homepage i shouldn't
be using an english base title tag i
need to fix that
and once you do this with all your
errors your critical and your warnings
fix the ones that make sense sometimes
not all of them make sense
and when you do that and you fix them
then you'll want to go back to seo
report
and then just click recrawl website
that's it if you do that you'll get your
on-page seo score closer to 100.
the general rule of thumb anything 90
and above is amazing anything 80 and
above is not too bad anything below that
you should work on continually improving
and you need to keep doing this and i
recommend at least once a month and the
reason being is as you publish new
content you keep changing your website
as your business grows you add more
employees
you continually release new seo errors
and on top of that google's algorithm
changes roughly eight nine plus times a
day
and things change so we're continually
adapting this seo analyzer every time
google's making big algorithm updates so
then that way you have a fresh updated
list of things that you need to fix and
this is the easiest way to do your seo
checklist because instead of keeping
track of each element as google adapts
this tool adapts with it as well so all
you want to continually do is just rerun
your website and just make sure you're
up to date and as you fix your seo
errors just make sure you click the
recrawl website and what that does is
recrawls your whole website just to make
sure that you fix things in the correct
way
now if you have any questions leave a
comment below i'll answer them and help
you out if you enjoy the video like it
share it tell the people about it if you
just want my team to do all this for you
and handle your seo check out my ad
agency neil patel digital thank you